So let’s get on to the recipe. Now to prepare this creamy cheesy pasta, follow the steps below.

Step 1 : Boil the Pasta
From above of glass and ceramic bowls with penne fuzilli farfalle and rigate pasta on table
So you can take two cups of normal pasta which is very easily available in the market.

If you want, you can use any shape of pasta you want to. So, two cups of pasta will be around 200 grams.

And 200 gram pack is easily available in the market as well. To boil this in a large pot(you can use small size as well), You have to take about 5 to 6 cups of water.

So while it is heating, I am going to add in some salt and half a teaspoon of oil and mix that.

As soon as it starts to boil, we will add in the pasta and mix it a bit. There is a very important thing you need to keep in mind is that you need to add the salt at this point only because then only it will absorb the flavour of the salt otherwise if you forget to put salt in the pasta here then you pasta will become a little bland.

So keep that thing in mind while boiling pasta and another thing you shouldn’t add too much oil while boiling the pasta because if you have put too much oil over the pasta then it will not easily coat the sauce.

Now let it boil for about 7-8 minutes or until pasta is cooked upto 80% that means pasta should still have some resistance.

After 7-8 minutes of boiling the past at medium flame, take out the pasta and check it’s resistance or whether it’s 80% cooked or not.

Step 2 : Strain the pasta
Now it’s time to strain the pasta and then to stop carry over cooking we will have to put some more water on the top of pasta. Wash it under the running water for about two to three minutes to stop the carryover cooking.

Once that is done, you can keep it aside and let it strain further and if you want you can just spread it a bit.

And if you are going to use this pasta later then you can also sprinkle some oil over it and then use it later.

Next up in a pan, I am going to add two teaspoons of oil over medium flame.

(if you want you can aso use some olive oil or butter instead)

Once that is heated, I am going to add one teaspoon of garlic which is finely chopped and let it fry for about 30 to 40 seconds or until its rawness goes away.

Now the garlic is nicely fried, next i a going to add in one onion which can even be roughly chopped and let it also cook for about one to two minutes or until its slightly translucent.

So let it cook for about two minutes and you should’t or no need to add more of onions as we are going to add other vegetables also.

And don’t turn the onion very dark and after two minutes you can add the rest of the vegetables as follows.

So put in one small carrot which is chopped properly.

Half a capsicum which is cut into cubes (optional).

Handful of boiled corns (this is also optional).

You can add more or less as per your taste and cook these vegetables just for about two more minutes.

So that they slightly turn up and they should still retain their crunch so here you can add any vegetables you had like and you can simply skip the ones you don’t.

One more thing if you want you can also add some mushrooms or chicken if you like too at this point.

So after these vegetables are tossed enough for 2-3 minutes. We don’t want to overcook it and make it very soft.

Next I am going to add in some salt, half a teaspoon of black pepper powder and mix that as well.

After that, switch off the flame and we will keep this aside for now.

Step 3 : Prepare the White Sauce
To prepare the white sauce in a pan over medium flame I am going to take 4 tablespoons of butter.

Let it heat over medium flame and to the floor 4 tablespoons of butter I am going to add in 4 tablespoons of all purpose flour so this is regular salted butter which I am using if you want you can also use unsalted one if you like.

And after mixing the all purpose flour keep tossing it over low to medium flame for about 3 to 4 minutes or until the rawness of the all purpose flour goes away.

It will also change its color slightly pale. Keep doing this over low flame only. Keep tossing it if you don’t want to turn this very dark.

One thing you have to keep in mind is that you have to continuously keep this mixture tossing over low flame only and one more tip I would like to give you here is that the ratio of the butter and all purpose flour is same in this recipe always.

so here we have used 4 tablespoons of butter and for that I have used 4 tablespoons of all purpose flour this will get the perfect creamy sauce.

so after about four minutes I can see the colour of the all purpose flour has changed to to slightly pale.

At this point of time I will start adding the milk so now I will start adding the milk gradually I mean we have to add the milk little at a time and start mixing the mixture otherwise if you will stop mixing then it will form lumps in it so keep mixing it.

So here I am adding two cups of milk for that 4 tablespoons of maida or all purpose flour.

Now keep doing this and mixing it and soon you will see the mixture becoming slightly thicker and if you want you can also use a whisk in between to break that lump if any so that it comes down to very smooth and creamy base.

After mixing it for about 3 to 4 minutes you can see the mixture becoming little thicker and all the lumps are gone.

At this point of time we will add in some salt.

Half a teaspoon of black pepper powder.

Half a teaspoon of red chilli flakes

And half teaspoon of mixed herb seasoning. All the seasonings and masala are easily available in the market and mix that as well with the base and keep cooking the sauce further for about another three to four minutes or until it’s cooked through over low flame only.

And to know how to judge that this is a right state to put in the pasta and whether the sauce is prepared or not :

One tip would like to give you here whenever you put your spoon in the sauce and when it is coating at the back of the spoon that means it’s the perfect coating consistency.

It’s neither too runny nor too thick , it’s the perfect coating consistancy so that’s the right stage you can put your pasta.

When that stage comes you can add in the prepared vegetables along with the boiled pasta and mix everything really well with the help of a patula until all the vegetables and the pasta are nicely coated with white sauce.

Let it cook there for about two to three more minutes so that it absorbs all the flavours of the sauce and if you find mixture to be very thick at this point then you can add just to Two to three tablespoons of milk or water to exist its consistency.

So it’s been almost 2 minutes i am cooking over medium flame. We don’t have to cook it too much also so that your pasta will be over boiled and it will break apart in it.

This thing you have to keep in mind you have to cook the pasta just enough for 2 to 3 minutes until it’s fully cooked also but not overcooked 

Next I am going to put it in my favourite ingredient that is cheese so here I am adding 3 to 4 tablespoons of grated cheese you can add more or less cheese as per your preference.

Today I am using Amul Cheese you can use any of the cheese of your choce

Now the cheese is also nicely melted And cheesy white sauce looking really mouth-watering.

You can serve it hot.

By serving only you can make out how beautiful and creamy it has come out.

But all the vegetables are nicely cooked.

You can simply serve this with some extra red chilli flakes.

Some Mixed Herbs seasoning and some grated cheese on top.

Here you go your home made Cafe style creamy white sauce pasta is ready.